# PCSNet - Prototypical Learning Guided Context-Aware Segmentation Network for Few-Shot Anomaly Detection

This is an official implementation of “A Masked Reverse Knowledge Distillation Method Incorporating Global and Local Information for Image Anomaly Detection” (MRKD) with PyTorch, accepted by knowledge-based systems.

**Abstract:** Few-shot anomaly detection (FSAD) denotes the identification of anomalies within a target category with a limited number of normal samples. While pre-trained feature representations play an important role in existing FSAD methods, there exists a domain gap between pre-trained representations and target FSAD scenarios. This study proposes a Prototypical Learning Guided Context-Aware Segmentation Network (PCSNet) to address the domain gap and improve feature descriptiveness in target scenarios. In particular, PCSNet comprises a prototypical feature adaption (PFA) sub-network and a context-aware segmentation (CAS) sub-network. PFA extracts prototypical features as accurate guidance to ensure better feature compactness for normal data while distinct separation from anomalies. A pixel-level disparity classification loss is also designed to make subtle anomalies more distinguishable. Then a CAS sub-network is introduced for pixel-level anomaly localization, where pseudo anomalies are exploited to facilitate the training process. Experimental results on MVTec and MPDD demonstrate the superior FSAD performance of PCSNet, with 94.9% and 80.2% image-level AUROC in an 8-shot scenario, respectively. Real-world applications on automotive plastic part inspection further demonstrate that PCSNet can achieve promising results with limited training samples. 

**Index Terms:** Anomaly detection; Pretrained feature representations; Few-shot learning; Prototypical learning; 
